=head1 NAME

Text::MicroMason::Changes - Change History for the MicroMason Distribution


=head1 VERSION 2 HISTORY


=head2 Version 1.93

=over 4

=item 2004-10-12

Instead of run-time eval of @MIXIN to fix SUPER resolution, now using a new SUPER method.

=item 2004-10-11

Documentation updates.

=back


=head2 Version 1.92

=over 4

=item 2004-10-11

Uploaded to CPAN to fix packaging issue with 1.9_1.

=back


=head2 Version 1.91

=over 4

=item 2004-10-10

Posted description of mixin mechanism to PerlMonks for discussion.

Debugged CompileCache and finished ExecuteCache. Added test scripts.

Debugged TemplateDir and added test script.

Implemented support for one-time options passed to compile that override other attributes. Adjusted Safe facade to prevent this from being done there, in order to avoid escapes from a Safe compartment.

=item 2004-10-09

Reorganized t/ directory.

=back


=head2 Version 1.90

=over 4

=item 2004-10-08

Documentation updates.

=item 2004-10-05

Documentation updates.

=back


=head2 Version 1.55

=over 4

=item 2004-09-23

Documentation updates.

=back


=head2 Version 1.54

=over 4

=item 2004-09-22

Renamed "interpret" method to "execute" for consistency with function interface.

Moved try_ functionality to new ErrorCatching mixin.

Generalized behavior of assemble method; moved template elements into %Assembly hash.

=back


=head2 Version 1.53

=over 4

=item 2004-09-22

Moved Safe functionality to new Safe mixin.

Moved filtering functionality to new Filters mixin.

=item 2004-09-21

Added mixin inheritance hacking logic based on DBIx::SQLEngine::Record::Class.

=back


=head2 Version 1.52

=over 4

=item 2004-09-19

Extracted Changes to separate POD document.

=item 2004-09-18

Additional work.

=back


=head2 Version 1.51

=over 4

=item 2004-09-17

Refactoring of method interface to merge compie and interpretation into single subroutines with parameters to indicate whether we're reading text or a file.

Added initial support for filtering interpolated expressions based on a patch and extended discussion with Alan Ferrency.

Packaged as version 1.51 but not released to CPAN.

=item 2004-09-16

Refactored to object-oriented implementation to allow subclassing. Inspired by discussion with Alan Ferrency about how to extend functionality.

Started CodeCache subclass based on experimental caching code included in 1.07.

Started TemplateDir subclass with base directory and relative path calculations based on a patch from Tommi Maekitalo.

Incorporated patch from Tommi Maekitalo to put default values from an <%args> block into the %ARGS variable as well as the separate named variables.

Created ServerPages subclass based on feature request from William Kern. 

=item 2004-09-15

Moved package documentation into separate ReadMe.pod.

=back


=head1 VERSION 1 HISTORY

=head2 Version 1.07

=over 4

=item 2003-09-26

Discard line break after <%perl> block as suggested by Tommi
Maekitalo. Note that removing these line breaks may affect the
rendering of your current templates! Although I am typically hesitant
to change established behavior, this does improve the template
output and brings us into line with HTML::Mason's behavior.

Added $Debug flag and support for <%args> blocks based on a
contribution by Tommi Maekitalo.

Adjusted internals to allow block reordering, and added support
for <%init> and <%once>.

Released as Text-MicroMason-1.07.tar.gz.

=back

=head2 Version 1.06

=over 4

=item 2003-09-04

Changed the way that subroutines were scoped into the
Text::MicroMason::Commands namespace so that Safe compartments with
separate namespaces and shared symbols have the visibility that
one would expect.

Fixed a bug in which an unadorned percent sign halted parsing, as
reported by William Kern at PixelGate. Added a test to the end of
6-regression.t that fails under 1.05 but passes under 1.06 to
confirm this.

Simplified parser regular expressions by using non-greedy matching.

Added documentation for *_file() functions. 
Corrected documentation to reflect the fact that template code is not compiled with "use safe" in effect by default, but that this might change in the future.

Released as Text-MicroMason-1.06.tar.gz.

=back

=head2 Version 1.05

=over 4

=item 2003-08-11

Adjusted regular expression based on parsing problems reported by Philip King and Daniel J. Wright, related to newlines and EOF. Added regression tests that fail under 1.04 but pass under 1.05 to ensure these features keep working as expected. 

Added non-printing-character escaping to parser failure and debugging messages to better track future reports of whitespace-related bugs.

Moved tests from test.pl into t/ subdirectory. 

Added experimental suppport for file code cache in compile_file_codecache.

Released as Text-MicroMason-1.05.tar.gz.

=back

=head2 Version 1.04

=over 4

=item 2002-06-23 

Adjusted regular expression based on parsing problems reported by Mark Hampton. 

Added file-include support with <& ... &> syntax. 

Documentation tweaks. Adjusted version number to simpler 0.00 format.
Released as Text-MicroMason-1.04.tar.gz.

=item 2002-01-14 

Documentation tweaks based on feedback from Pascal Barbedor. Updated author's contact information.

=back

=head2 Version 1.0.3

=over 4

=item 2001-07-01

Renamed from HTML::MicroMason to Text::MicroMason. Documentation tweaks. Released as Text-MicroMason-1.0.3.tar.gz.

=back

=head2 Version 1.0.2

=over 4

=item 2001-04-10 

Munged interface for clarity. Added Safe support. 
Adjusted docs to reflect feedback from mason-users.
Released as HTML-MicroMason-1.0.2.tar.gz.

=back

=head2 Version 1.0.1

=over 4

=item 2001-03-28 

Parser tweakage; additional documentation.
Added Exporter support.
Released as HTML-MicroMason-1.0.1.tar.gz.

=item 2001-03-26 

Added try_interpret; documented error messages.

=back

=head2 Version 1.0.0

=over 4

=item 2001-03-23 

Extended documentation; added makefile, test script. 
Renamed accumulator to $OUT to match Text::Template.
Released as HTML-MicroMason-1.0.0.tar.gz.

=item 2001-03-22 

Created.

=back
