=head1 NAME

Text::MicroMason::Devel - MicroMason Template Syntax And Techniques


=head1 SYNOPSIS

Mason syntax provides several ways to mix Perl into a text template:

    <%args>
      $name
    </%args>
    % if ( $name eq 'Dave' ) {
      I'm sorry <% $name %>, I'm afraid I can't do that right now.
    % } else {
      <%perl>
	my $hour = (localtime)[2];
	my $daypart = ( $hour > 11 ) ? 'afternoon' : 'morning'; 
      </%perl>
      Good <% $daypart %>, <% $name %>!
    % }

    <& "includes/page_footer.msn" &>

    <%doc>
      Here's a comment describing this greeting message template. 
    </%doc>


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes the default template syntax used by Text::MicroMason and how it is turned into runnable Perl code.

See also L<HTML::Mason::Devel>.

=head1 TEMPLATE SYNTAX

Text::MicroMason::Base supports a syntax that is mostly a subset of that used by HTML::Mason.

=head2 Template Markup

The following types of markup are recognized in template pages:

=over 4

=item *

I<literal_text>

Anything not specifically parsed by one of the below rules is interpreted as literal text.

=item *

E<lt>% I<perl_expr> %E<gt>

A Perl expression to be interpolated into the result.

For example, the following template text will return a scheduled
greeting:

    Good <% (localtime)[2]>11 ? 'afternoon' : 'morning' %>.

The block may span multiple lines and is scoped inside a "do" block,
so it may contain multiple Perl statements and it need not end with
a semicolon.

    Good <% my $h = (localtime)[2]; $h > 11 ? 'afternoon' 
                                            : 'morning'  %>.

=item *

% I<perl_code>

Lines which begin with the % character, without any leading
whitespace, may contain arbitrary Perl code to be executed when
encountering this portion of the template.  Their result is not
interpolated into the result.

For example, the following template text will return a scheduled
greeting:

    % my $daypart = (localtime)[2]>11 ? 'afternoon' : 'morning';
    Good <% $daypart %>.

The line may contain one or more statements.  This code is automatically
terminated by a semicolon but it is not placed in its own block scope, so
it can still open a spanning block scope closed by a later perl block.

For example, the following template text will return one of two different messages each time it's interpreted:

    % if ( int rand 2 ) {
      Hello World!
    % } else {
      Goodbye Cruel World!
    % }

This also allows you to quickly comment out sections of a template by prefacing each line with C<% #>.

This is equivalent to a <%perl>...</%perl> block.

=item *

E<lt>& I<template_filename>, I<arguments> &E<gt>

Includes the results of a separate file containing MicroMason code, compiling it and executing it with any arguments passed after the filename.

For example, we could place the following template text into an separate 
file:

    Good <% $ARGS{hour} >11 ? 'afternoon' : 'morning' %>.

Assuming this file was named "greeting.msn", its results could be embedded within the output of another script as follows:

  <& "greeting.msn", hour => (localtime)[2] &>

=item *

E<lt>%I<name>E<gt> ... E<lt>/%I<name>E<gt>

A named block contains a span of text. The name at the start and end must match, and must be one of the supported block names. 

Depending on the name, performs one of the behaviors described in L</"Named Blocks">.

=back

=head2 Named Blocks

The following types of named blocks are supported:

=over 4

=item *

E<lt>%perlE<gt> I<perl_code> E<lt>/%perlE<gt>

Blocks surrounded by %perl tags may contain arbitrary Perl code.
Their result is not interpolated into the result.

These blocks may span multiple lines in your template file. For
example, the below template initializes a Perl variable inside a
%perl block, and then interpolates the result into a message.

    <%perl> 
      my $count = join '', map "$_... ", ( 1 .. 9 ); 
    </%perl>
    Here are some numbers: <% $count %>

The code may contain one or more statements.  This code is automatically
terminated by a semicolon but it is not placed in its own block scope, so
it can still open a spanning block scope closed by a later perl block.

For example, when the below template text is evaluated it will
return a sequence of digits:

    Here are some numbers: 
    <%perl> 
      foreach my $digit ( 1 .. 9 ) { 
    </%perl>
	<% $digit %>... 
    <%perl> 
      } 
    </%perl>

If the block is immediately followed by a line break, that break is
discarded.  These blocks are not whitespace sensitive, so the template
could be combined into a single line if desired.

=item *

E<lt>%argsE<gt> I<variable> => I<default> E<lt>/%argsE<gt>

Defines a collection of variables to be initialized from named arguments passed to the subroutine. Arguments are separated by one or more newlines, and may optionally be followed by a default value. If no default value is provided, the argument is required and the subroutine will croak if it is not provided. 

For example, adding the following block to a template will initialize the three named variables, and will fail if no C<a =E<gt> '...'> argument pair is passed:

  <%args>
    $a
    @b => qw( foo bar baz )
    %c => ()
  </%args>

All the arguments are available as lexically scoped ("my") variables in the rest of the component. Default expressions are evaluated in top-to-bottom order, and one expression may reference an earlier one.

Only valid Perl variable names may be used in <%args> sections. Parameters with non-valid variable names cannot be pre-declared and must be fetched manually out of the %ARGS hash. 

=item *

E<lt>%initE<gt> I<perl_code> E<lt>/%initE<gt>

Similar to a %perl block, except that the code is moved up to the start of
the subroutine. This allows a template's initialization code to be moved to
the end of the file rather than requiring it to be at the top.

For example, the following template text will return a scheduled
greeting:

    Good <% $daypart %>.
    <%init> 
      my $daypart = (localtime)[2]>11 ? 'afternoon' : 'morning';
    </%init>

=item *

E<lt>%cleanupE<gt> I<perl_code> E<lt>/%cleanupE<gt>

Similar to a %perl block, except that the code is moved down to the end of the subroutine. 

=item *

E<lt>%onceE<gt> I<perl_code> E<lt>/%onceE<gt>

Similar to a %perl block, except that the code is executed once,
when the template is first compiled. (If a caller is using execute,
this code will be run repeatedly, but if they call compile and then
invoke the resulting subroutine multiple times, the %once code will
only execute during the compilation step.)

This code does not have access to %ARGS and can not generate output.
It can be used to define constants, create persistent variables,
or otherwise prepare the environment.

For example, the following template text will return a increasing
number each time it is called:

    <%once> 
      my $counter = 1000;
    </%once>
    The count is <% ++ $counter %>.

=item *

E<lt>%docE<gt> ... E<lt>/%docE<gt>

Provides space for template developer documentation or comments which are not included in the output.

=back

The following types of named blocks are not supported by HTML::Mason, but are supported here as a side-effect of the way the lexer and assembler are implemented.

=over 4

=item *

E<lt>%textE<gt> ... E<lt>/%textE<gt>

Produces literal text in the template output. Can be used to surround text
that contains other markup tags that should not be interpreted.

Equivalent to un-marked-up text.

E<lt>%outputE<gt> ... E<lt>/%outputE<gt>

A Perl expression to be interpolated into the result.
The block may span multiple lines and is scoped inside a "do" block,
so it may contain multiple Perl statements and it need not end with
a semicolon. 

Equivalent to the C<E<lt>% ... %E<gt>> markup syntax.

=item *

E<lt>%includeE<gt> I<template_filename>, I<arguments> E<lt>/%includeE<gt>

Includes the results of a separate file containing MicroMason code, compiling it and executing it with any arguments passed after the filename.

  <%include> "greeting.msn", hour => (localtime)[2] </%include>

Equivalent to the C<E<lt>& ... &E<gt>> markup syntax.

=back


=head1 TEMPLATE DEVELOPER NOTES

=head2 Assembling Perl Source Code

When Text::MicroMason::Base assembles your lexed template into the
equivalent Perl subroutine, all of the literal (non-Perl) pieces are
converted to C<$_out-E<gt>('text');> statements, and the interpolated
expressions are converted to C<$_out-E<gt>( do { expr } );> statements.
Code from %perl blocks and % lines are included exactly as-is.

Your code is eval'd in the C<Text::MicroMason::Commands> package. 
The C<use strict;> pragma is enabled by default to simplify debugging.

=head2 Internal Sub-templates

You can create sub-templates within your template text by defining
them as anonymous subroutines and then calling them repeatedly.
For example, the following template will concatenate the results of 
the draw_item sub-template for each of three items:

    <h1>We've Got Items!</h1>
    
    % my $draw_item = sub {
      <p><b><% $_[0] %></b>:<br>
	<a href="/more?item=<% $_[0] %>">See more about <% $_[0] %>.</p>
    % };
    
    <%perl>
      foreach my $item ( qw( Foo Bar Baz ) ) {
	$draw_item->( $item );
      }
    </%perl>

=head2 Returning Text from Perl Blocks

To append to the result from within Perl code, call $_out->(I<text>). 
(The $_out->() syntax is unavailable in older versions of Perl; use the
equivalent &$_out() syntax instead.)

For example, the below template text will return '123456789' when it is
evaluated:

    <%perl>
      foreach my $digit ( 1 .. 9 ) {
	$_out->( $digit )
      }
    </%perl>

You can also directly manipulate the value $OUT, which contains the
accumulating result. 

For example, the below template text will return an altered version of its
message if a true value for 'minor' is passed as an argument when the
template is executed:

    This is a funny joke.
    % $OUT =~ tr[a-z][n-za-m] if $ARGS{minor};


=head1 SYNTAX MIXINS

This behavior can be supplemented or overridden by subclasses and mixins. (Of particular interest are the private lex(), assemble(), and eval_sub() methods.) For more information about how these mixin behaviors are implemented and selected, see L<Text::MicroMason/"Object-Oriented Interface">.

=head2 Filters

HTML::Mason provides an expression filtering mechanism which is typically used for applying HTML and URL escaping functions to output. 

The Filters mixin provides this capability for Text::MicroMason templates. To select it, add its name to your Mason initialization call:

  my $mason = Text::MicroMason->new( -Filters );

Output expressions may then be followed by "|h" or "|u" escapes; for example this line would convert any ampersands in the output to the equivalent HTML entity:

  Welcome to <% $company_name |h %>

For more information see L<Text::MicroMason::Filters>

=head2 ServerPages

The ServerPages mixin replaces the supported template syntax with one similar to that used by the ASP and JSP templating systems.

For more information see L<Text::MicroMason::ServerPages>


=head1 SEE ALSO

For the core functionality of this package see L<Text::MicroMason> and L<Text::MicroMason::Base>.

For distribution, installation, support, copyright and license 
information, see L<Text::MicroMason::ReadMe>.

=cut
